Release note draft for v20250427 (#4985)
Azure/AKS: CHANGELOG.md

* Kubernetes 1.31 and 1.32 are now recognized as Long-Term Support (LTS) releases in AKS, joining existing LTS versions 1.28 and 1.29. You can view when these LTS releases hit your region in real time via the [Release tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/). For more information, see [Long Term Support (LTS)](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/long-term-support).
* AKS now requires a minimum of 2GBs of memory for the SKU for all user nodepools. To learn more, see [aka.ms/aks/restrictedSKUs](https://aka.ms/aks/restrictedSKUs).
* Starting on 5 May, 2025, [WebAssembly System Interface (WASI) node pools](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4770) will no longer be retired. You can no longer create WASI (preview) node pools, and existing WASI node pools will be unsupported. 

> * Starting in May 2025, Azure Kubernetes Service will begin rolling out a change to enable quota for all current and new AKS customers. AKS quota will represent a limit of the maximum number of managed clusters that an Azure subscription can consume per region. Existing AKS customer subscriptions will be given a quota limit at or above their current usage, depending on region availability. Once quota is enabled, customers can view their available quota and request quota increases in the Quotas page in the Azure Portal or by using the Quotas REST API. For details on how to view and request quota increases via the Portal Quotas page, visit [Azure Quotas](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/quotas/view-quotas). For details on how to view and request quota increases via the Quotas REST API, visit: [Azure Quota REST API Reference](https://learn.microsoft.com/rest/api/reserved-vm-instances/quotaapi). New AKS customer subscriptions will be given a default limit upon new subscription creation. More information on the default limits for new subscriptions is available in documentation [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits).

Reviewer: ``
```suggestion
* Starting in June 2025, Azure Kubernetes Service will begin rolling out a change to enable quota for all current and new AKS customers. AKS quota will represent a limit of the maximum number of managed clusters that an Azure subscription can consume per region. Existing AKS customer subscriptions will be given a quota limit at or above their current usage, depending on region availability. Once quota is enabled, customers can view their available quota and request quota increases in the Quotas page in the Azure Portal or by using the Quotas REST API. For details on how to view and request quota increases via the Portal Quotas page, visit [Azure Quotas](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/quotas/view-quotas). For details on how to view and request quota increases via the Quotas REST API, visit: [Azure Quota REST API Reference](https://learn.microsoft.com/rest/api/reserved-vm-instances/quotaapi). New AKS customer subscriptions will be given a default limit upon new subscription creation. More information on the default limits for new subscriptions is available in documentation [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits).
```

Reviewer: @charleswool , can you please adopt this suggested change? It updates the ETA for quota enablement.

  * [Disabling kube-proxy](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/configure-kube-proxy) no longer requires the AFEC flag in bring-your-own (BYO) CNI scenarios.
  * [ExtensionManager](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/kubernetes/conceptual-extensions) is moved from kube-system to internal AKS infrastructure. Clusters with extensions in canary no longer require any of the outbound networking rules documented [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress#cluster-extensions). Note that some extensions such as Flux still require a subset of these outbound rules.

* Component Updates:
  * Fleet networking components updated to v0.39 from v0.38 to fix CVE.
  * [Workload Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/workload-identity-deploy-cluster) updated from v1.4.0 to v1.5.0
  * App-routing-operator has been upgraded to [v0.2.5](https://github.com/Azure/aks-app-routing-operator/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#025---2025-04-22) on all supported AKS versions.
  * Cost-analysis-agent and -scraper versions in addon charts updated from v0.0.22 to 0.0.23 to fix [CVE-2025-22871](https://pkg.go.dev/vuln/GO-2025-3563).

>   * [Cloud-controller-manager](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/) updated to v1.32.4, v1.31.5, v1.30.11 and v1.29.14.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Cloud-controller-manager updated to [v1.32.4](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/04/21/v1.32.4/), [v1.31.5](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/04/21/v1.31.5/), [v1.30.11](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/04/21/v1.30.11/) and [v1.29.14](https://cloud-provider-azure.sigs.k8s.io/blog/2025/04/21/v1.29.14/).
```

  * [Promtheus collector](https://github.com/Azure/prometheus-collector/blob/main/RELEASENOTES.md#release-04-15-2025) for Azure Monitor managed service for Prometheus addon updated from 6.15.0-main-02-21-2025-4acb2b4c to 6.16.0-main-04-15-2025-d78050c6.

>   * Retina Enterprise image updated to v0.1.9 to resolve [issues](https://github.com/azure-networking/retina-enterprise/releases/tag/v0.1.9) with Retina-Operator container image build on ARM64 nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Retina Enterprise image updated to [v0.1.9](https://github.com/azure-networking/retina-enterprise/releases/tag/v0.1.9) to resolve issues with retina-operator container image build on ARM64 nodes.
```

>   * Retina base image to v0.0.30 for both Linux and Windows to resolve security vulnerabilities [CVE-2024-40635](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-40635) , [CVE-2025-30162](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-30162) and [CVE-2025-22870](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-22870).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Retina base image to [v0.0.30](https://github.com/microsoft/retina/releases/tag/v0.0.30) for both Linux and Windows to resolve security vulnerabilities [CVE-2024-40635](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-40635) , [CVE-2025-30162](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-30162) and [CVE-2025-22870](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-22870).
```

  * Calico CNI/Tigera Operator updated to [v3.28.4](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/releases/tag/v3.28.4) (operator v1.34.10) and [v3.29.3](https://github.com/projectcalico/calico/releases/tag/v3.29.3) (operator v1.36.7), fixing [CVE-2025-0395](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-0395), [CVE-2025-22869](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-22869), [CVE-2025-22872](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-22872), [CVE-2024-9042](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-9042), [CVE-2025-0426](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-0426) and [CVE-2025-22871](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2025-22871).

>   * Cilium image updated to v1.13 to fix [CVE-2024-45336](https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2024-45336), [CVE-2024-45341](https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2024-45341), [CVE-2025-22866](https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2025-22866), [CVE-2025-22870](https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2025-22870), [CVE-2024-45337]( https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2024-45337).

Reviewer 2: which patch version of v1.13? and on which AKS versions? - @charleswool, @chasewilson can you folks follow up on this?

* The asm-1-22 revision for the Istio-based service mesh add-on has been deprecated. Migrate to a supported revision following the [AKS Istio upgrade guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).
* Starting on 17 June 2025, AKS will no longer create new node images for [Ubuntu 18.04](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4873) or provide security updates. Existing node images will be deleted. Your node pools will be unsupported and you will no longer be able to scale. To avoid service disruptions, scaling restrictions, and remain supported, please follow our instructions to [upgrade](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-aks-cluster?tabs=azure-cli) to a [supported Kubernetes version](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/supported-kubernetes-versions).

> * HTTP Application Routing (preview) has been retired as of March 3, 2025 and AKS will start to block new cluster creation with HTTP App routing enabled. Affected clusters must [migrate](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/app-routing-migration) to the generally available Application Routing add-on prior to that date. 

Reviewer 3: this still needed?

Author: removed

* [Teleport (preview)](https://github.com/Azure/acr/blob/main/docs/teleport/aks-getting-started.md) on AKS will be retired on 15 July 2025, please [migrate to Artifact Streaming (preview) on AKS](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/artifact-streaming) or update your node pools to set --aks-custom-headers EnableACRTeleport=false. Azure Container Registry has removed the Teleport API meaning that any nodes with Teleport enabled are pulling images from Azure Container Registry as any other AKS node. After 15 July 2025, any node pools with Teleport (preview) enabled may experience breakage and node provisioning failures. For more information, see [aka.ms/aks/teleport-retirement](https://aka.ms/aks/teleport-retirement).

### Release Notes
* Features:

>   * Kubernetes 1.33 version is now available for Preview, see [Release tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/) for when it hits your region.

Reviewer 3: Preview feature?

  * [Network isolated cluster](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/concepts-network-isolated) with outbound type `none` is now Generally Available.
  * [AKS Security Bulletin](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/security-bulletins/overview?tabs=aks-addons%2Caks-cluster%2Caks-node-image) and [AKS CVE Mitigation Status](https://releases.aks.azure.com/webpage/index.html) are now available to track Security and CVE mitigations.

* Bug Fixes:

>   * Fix an [issue](https://github.com/azure-networking/cilium-private/pull/465)) in [Azure CNI Powered by Cilium](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium), if the DNS request timeout is set to below 2 seconds, the high-scale scenarios may cause drops due to duplicate request ID.

Reviewer 3: What does this mean? What was the user experienced issue?

Author: waiting for clarification from @chasewilson

Reviewer 4: Improves DNS request/response performance, especially in large scale clusters using FQDN based policies. Without this fix, if the user sets a DNS request timeout below 2 seconds, in high-scale scenarios they may experience request drops due to duplicate request IDs.

>   * Fix an issue where [load balancer](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/load-balancer-standard) tags were not updated after a managed cluster tag update. Load balancer tags now correctly reflect the latest state.

Reviewer 3: managed cluster -> cluster, all AKS clusters are managed and we don't need to use the API name

Author: updated

>   * Fix an [issue](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/38210) in Cilium v1.17 where a deadlock causing pods unable to start. 

Reviewer 3: Sentence issue here

*where a deadlock was causing pods to be unable to start. 

?

Also, what pods, user application pods?

Author: adjust sentence issue also clarify it's server pod that fails to start

* Behavior Changes:

>   * `aksmanagedap` is blocked as a reserved name for AKS system component, you can no longer use it for creating agent pool.

Reviewer 3: Taking offline

Author: I will keep this one as open

Author: Waiting for Wilson to provide updated doc on name rules

>   * `linuxutil plugin` is temporarily disabled for [Retina Basic and ACNS](https://retina.sh/docs/Metrics/plugins/Linux/linuxutil) as it is causing memory leaks that leads to Retina pods OOMKill.

Reviewer 3: it is or it was?

Author: it was, updated

>   * ACNS configmaps (`cilium`, `retina`, `hubble`) now auto‑format cluster names to satisfy Cilium 1.17 rules:≤ 32 chars, lowercase alphanumeric characters and dashes, no leading/trailing dashes, functionality is unaffected. This change is due to the strict enforcement of Cilium 1.17. See this [link](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/commit/b1f10bcb26d71f046d8ad108d5f4b9e42aa5d486) for details.

Reviewer 3: Full name before first occurrence of acronym.

Author: Updated the full name with link

  * The `defaultConfig.gatewayTopology` field is now included in the Istio add-on `MeshConfig` AllowList as an unsupported field. For more details, see the [Istio MeshConfig documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-meshconfig#allowed-supported-and-blocked-meshconfig-values).
  * Previously, you can't disable [NodeAutoProvisioning](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/node-autoprovision) once enabled, now you can if meet these criteria:
    - The cluster must have 0 NAP-managed nodes.

>     - Every existing karpenter.sh/NodePool must have its spec.limits.cpu set to 0.

Reviewer 3: All of this is docs info not release notes info, provide doc link to the expanded section after noting you can disable nap.

Author: Tagging Wilson offline, keep open for now

Author: @wilson to add disable criteria in NAP doc

>   * [Disabling kube-proxy](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/configure-kube-proxy) no longer requires the `KubeProxyConfigurationPreview` feature flag in bring-your-own (BYO) CNI scenarios.

Reviewer 3: taken offline

  * ACNS configmaps (`cilium`, `retina`, `hubble`) now auto‑format cluster names to satisfy Cilium 1.17 rules:≤ 32 chars, lowercase alphanumeric characters and dashes, no leading/trailing dashes. See this [link](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/commit/b1f10bcb26d71f046d8ad108d5f4b9e42aa5d486) for details.
  * The `defaultConfig.gatewayTopology` field is now included in the Istio add-on `MeshConfig` AllowList as an unsupported field. For more details, see the [Istio MeshConfig documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-meshconfig#allowed-supported-and-blocked-meshconfig-values).
  * You can now disable [NodeAutoProvisioning](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/node-autoprovision) if meet these criteria: 1. The cluster must have 0 NAP-managed nodes. 2. Every existing karpenter.sh/NodePool must have its spec.limits.cpu set to 0.
  * [Disabling kube-proxy](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/configure-kube-proxy) no longer requires the AFEC flag in bring-your-own (BYO) CNI scenarios.

>   * [ExtensionManager](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/kubernetes/conceptual-extensions) is moved from kube-system to internal AKS infrastructure. Clusters with extensions in canary no longer require any of the outbound networking rules documented [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress#cluster-extensions). Note that some extensions such as Flux still require a subset of these outbound rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * [extension-manager](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/integrations#extensions) is moved from kube-system to internal AKS infrastructure. Cluster extensions no longer require any of the [outbound networking rules needed for extensions-manager](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress#cluster-extensions). Note that this change only removes the outbound requirements for extension-manager component used to install the extensions while the extensions themselves (such as flux extension whose pods run on AKS user node pools) will still require their outbound network endpoints to be allowed on your firewall.
```

Author: incorporated

# Azure Kubernetes Service Changelog

## Release 2025-04-27

Monitor the release status by region at [AKS-Release-Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/). This release is titled `v20250427`.

### Announcements

> * AKS supported Kubernetes version release updates are now available in [AKS Release Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/). You can check current in-support Kubernetes versions and LTS versions for specific region and track new patches version release progress with Release Tracker.

Reviewer 5: Az Linux 2.0 is being retired end of November 2025, coinciding with end of support for 1.31 community version. Customers using Az Linux 2.0 are requested to migrate to 3.0 by summer when AKS shall provide a specific feature to do the migration. However there wont be any rollback capability available with this.

Reviewer 5: @allyford feel free to edit the announcement above or review it.

Author: I will incorporate as Kaarthik suggested for now

> * Kubernetes 1.29 community version is now deprecated.

Reviewer 5: This is old pls remove this callout.

Author: Removed

> * Kubernetes 1.28 and 1.29 are now recognized as Long-Term Support (LTS) releases in AKS, joining existing LTS versions 1.27 and 1.30. For more information, see [Long Term Support (LTS)](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/long-term-support).

Reviewer 5: 1.28, 1.29 LTS is old news. Please change this to K8s versions 1.31 and 1.32 are now LTS compatible. Also add that you can view when these LTS releases hit your region in real time via the Release tracker.

Author: Incorporated

> * You can now [switch non-LTS clusters](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/supported-kubernetes-versions?tabs=azure-cli#faq) on Kubernetes versions 1.25 onwards and within 3 versions of the current LTS versions to LTS by switching their tier to Premium.

Reviewer 5: This is a bit confusing - suggest removing it.

Author: removed

> * AKS now requires a minimum of 2GBs of memory for the SKU for all user nodepools. To learn more, see [aka.ms/aks/restrictedSKUs](https://aka.ms/aks/restrictedSKUs).

Reviewer 2: leaving a comment on this in internal chat

Author: We should be good according to the discussion in comment on this one, resolved

Reviewer 3: What's new here? we haven't changed this in years

> * Starting on 15 April 2025, you will now be able to update your clusters to add an HTTP Proxy Configuration. Any update command that adds/changes an HTTP Proxy Configuration will now trigger an automatic reimage that will ensure all node pools in the cluster will have the same configuration. For more information, see [aka.ms/aks/http-proxy](https://aka.ms/aks/http-proxy).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 6: In last release notes

Author: incorporated

Reviewer 3: April 15 is in the past, either this is a feature, preview feature or behavior change

> * Starting on 5 May, 2025, [WebAssembly System Interface (WASI) node pools](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-wasi-node-pools) will no longer be supported. You will no longer be able to create new WASI nodepools.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Starting on 5 May, 2025, [WebAssembly System Interface (WASI) node pools](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4770) will no longer be retired. You can no longer create WASI (preview) node pools, and existing WASI node pools will be unsupported. 
```

Author: Incorporated

> * AKS Kubernetes version 1.32 roll out has been delayed and is now expected to reach all regions on or before the end of April. Please use the [az-aks-get-versions](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks?view=azure-cli-latest#az-aks-get-versions) command to accurately capture if Kubernetes version 1.32 is available in your region.

Reviewer 5: This is very old 1.32 has been rolled out and fully GAed for a while now - please remove.

Reviewer 7: @kaarthis  I thought 1.33 was coming out?

Author: removed

> * AKS Kubernetes version 1.32 roll out has been delayed and is now expected to reach all regions on or before the end of April. Please use the [az-aks-get-versions](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks?view=azure-cli-latest#az-aks-get-versions) command to accurately capture if Kubernetes version 1.32 is available in your region.

Reviewer 2: it's 1st May today. can we confirm if this got completed yesterday and remove/update the line as relevant?

Author: It's already out, removed

* As of 31 March 2025, AKS no longer allows new cluster creation with the Basic Load Balancer. On 30 September 2025, the Basic Load Balancer will be retired. We will be posting updates on migration paths to the Standard Load Balancer. See [AKS Basic LB Migration Issue](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/1687) for updates on when a simplified upgrade path is available. Refer to [Basic Load Balancer Deprecation Update](https://azure.microsoft.com/updates?id=azure-basic-load-balancer-will-be-retired-on-30-september-2025-upgrade-to-standard-load-balancer) for more information.
* The asm-1-22 revision for the Istio-based service mesh add-on has been deprecated. Migrate to a supported revision following the [AKS Istio upgrade guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).

> * Starting on 17 June 2025, AKS will no longer create new node images for [Ubuntu 18.04](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4873) or provide security updates. Existing node images will be deleted. Your node pools will be unsupported and you will no longer be able to scale. To avoid service disruptions, scaling restrictions, and remain supported, please follow our instructions to [upgrade](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-aks-cluster?tabs=azure-cli) to a [supported Kubernetes version](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/supported-kubernetes-versions).

Reviewer 5: Can you add a Preview features section and call out that 1.33 kubernetes version is now available for Preview please refer Release tracker for when it hits your region.

Reviewer 7: ahh never mind my previous comment.

Author: added in feature section, I tend to not add preview section specifically for now we only have this preview announcement

> * Starting on 17 March 2027, AKS will no longer create new node images for [Ubuntu 20.04](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4874) or provide security updates. Existing node images will be deleted. Your node pools will be unsupported and you will no longer be able to scale. To avoid service disruptions, scaling restrictions, and remain supported, please follow our instructions to [upgrade](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-aks-cluster?tabs=azure-cli) to Kubernetes version 1.34+ by the retirement date.  

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 6: Removing since this was already in release notes for a while and is not for a few years, we will add it back at 1 year reminder and before removal

Author: Sounds good, incorporated

* HTTP Application Routing (preview) has been retired as of March 3, 2025 and AKS will start to block new cluster creation with HTTP App routing enabled. Affected clusters must [migrate](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/app-routing-migration) to the generally available Application Routing add-on prior to that date. 

> * [Teleport (preview)](https://github.com/Azure/acr/blob/main/docs/teleport/aks-getting-started.md) on AKS will be retired on 15 July 2025, please [migrate to Artifact Streaming (preview) on AKS](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/artifact-streaming) or update your node pools to set --aks-custom-headers EnableACRTeleport=false. Azure Container Registry has removed the Teleport API meaning that any nodes with Teleport enabled are pulling images from Azure Container Registry as any other AKS node. After 15 July 2025, any node pools with Teleport (preview) enabled may experience breakage and node provisioning failures. For more information, see [aka.ms/aks/teleport-retirement](https://aka.ms/aks/teleport-retirement).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 6: Already was in release notes

Reviewer 2: retirement date is July 15th this year. should be fine to keep this as a reminder no?

Author: Agree, I think we should keep this one since the retirement date is still two month away.

Author: Mark resolved for now

### Release Notes
* Features:

>   * [Network isolated cluster](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/concepts-network-isolated) is now Generally Available.

Reviewer 2: we need to clarify that network isolated cluster outbound type none is GA. And in a parentheses may be mentioned that outbound type block remains in preview at this point.

Author: Updated

>   * [AKS Security Bulletin](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/security-bulletins/overview?tabs=aks-addons%2Caks-cluster%2Caks-node-image) and [AKS CVE Mitigation Status](https://releases.aks.azure.com/webpage/index.html) are now available to track Security and CVE mitigations.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * [AKS Security Bulletin](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/security-bulletins/overview?tabs=aks-addons%2Caks-cluster%2Caks-node-image) and [AKS CVE Mitigation Status](https://releases.aks.azure.com/webpage/index.html) are now available to track Security and CVE mitigations.
```

Author: Incorporated

>   * [AKS Security Bulletin](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/security-bulletins/overview?tabs=aks-addons%2Caks-cluster%2Caks-node-image) and [AKS CVE Mitigation Status](https://releases.aks.azure.com/webpage/index.html) are now available to track Security and CVE mitigations.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  * [AKS Security Bulletin](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/security-bulletins/overview?tabs=aks-addons%2Caks-cluster%2Caks-node-image) and [AKS CVE Mitigation Status](https://releases.aks.azure.com/webpage/index.html) are now available to track Security and CVE mitigations.
  * [Kubelet Service Certificate Rotation](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/4986) will begin regional rollout, starting with westcentralus and eastasia by 16 May 2025. Existing node pools in these regions will have kubelet serving certificate rotation enabled by default when they perform their first upgrade to any kubernetes version 1.27 or greater. New node pools in these regions on kubernetes version 1.27 or greater will have kubelet serving certificate rotation enabled by default. For more information on kubelet serving certificate rotation, see [aka.ms/aks/kubelet-serving-certificate-rotation](https://aka.ms/aks/kubelet-serving-certificate-rotation).
```

Reviewer 2: was the kubelet service certificate rotation change in this release? or will it be in next release around 16th May? if it's in the next release and this is a heads up notification, move this to announcements section

Author: Keep this open as discussion in the thread still going with Ally

>   * You can now enable [Federal Information Process Standard (FIPS)](https://aka.ms/aks/enable-fips) when using [Arm64 VM SKUs](https://aka.ms/aks/arm64) in Azure Linux 3.0 node pools in Kubernetes version 1.31+.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

Author: incorporated

>   * Custom Certificate Authority is available as GA in the [2025-01-01 GA API](https://learn.microsoft.com/rest/api/aks/managed-clusters/create-or-update?view=rest-aks-2025-01-01&tabs=HTTP#create-managed-cluster-with-custom-ca-trust-certificates). It isn't yet available in the CLI until May 2025. To use the GA feature in CLI before release, you can use the [`az rest`](https://learn.microsoft.com/cli/azure/reference-index?view=azure-cli-latest#az-rest) command to add custom certificates during cluster creation. For more information, see [aka.ms/aks/custom-certificate-authority](https://aka.ms/aks/custom-certificate-authority).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 6: Already was in release notes

Author: Incorporated

* Bug Fixes:
  * Fix an [issue](https://github.com/azure-networking/cilium-private/pull/465)) in [Azure CNI Powered by Cilium](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/azure-cni-powered-by-cilium), if the DNS request timeout is set to below 2 seconds, the high-scale scenarios may cause drops due to duplicate request ID.
  * Fix an issue where [load balancer](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/load-balancer-standard) tags were not updated after a managed cluster tag update. Load balancer tags now correctly reflect the latest state.
  * Fix an [issue](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/38210) in Cilium v1.17 where a deadlock causing pods unable to start. 

> * Behavior Changes:

Reviewer 5: For every behavior change can you tell 'Why' we did this / whats the benefit now to user - i see its missing on most .

Author: Updated some of the change to reflect why or beneift. Not sure if some applies such change, for example: 
  * [Disabling kube-proxy](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/configure-kube-proxy) no longer requires the `KubeProxyConfigurationPreview` feature flag in bring-your-own (BYO) CNI scenarios.

Author: @kaarthis could you revisit this section for feedback/suggestion?

>   * `aksmanagedap` is blocked as a reserved name for use of creating agent pool.

Reviewer 5: Docs link ?

Reviewer 2: leaving comment internally

Author: Should be good per discussion in thread, resolved

>   * `linuxutil plugin` is temporarily disabled for [Retina Basic and ACNS](https://retina.sh/docs/Metrics/plugins/Linux/linuxutil) for it is causing memory leaks that leads to Retina pods OOMKill.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `linuxutil plugin` is temporarily disabled for [Retina Basic and ACNS](https://retina.sh/docs/Metrics/plugins/Linux/linuxutil) as it is causing memory leaks that leads to Retina pods OOMKill.
```

  * ACNS configmaps (`cilium`, `retina`, `hubble`) now auto‑format cluster names to satisfy Cilium 1.17 rules:≤ 32 chars, lowercase alphanumeric characters and dashes, no leading/trailing dashes. See this [link](https://github.com/cilium/cilium/commit/b1f10bcb26d71f046d8ad108d5f4b9e42aa5d486) for details.

>   * The `defaultConfig.gatewayTopology` field is now included in the Istio add-on `MeshConfig` AllowList as an unsupported field. For more details, see the [Istio MeshConfig documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-meshconfig#allowed-supported-and-blocked-meshconfig-values).

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is a behavior change as there are no existing users for this and thus wouldn't be seeing a behavior change. IMO this should be under features or preview features section. @biefy can you confirm if this is in preview/stable and we can accordingly move it to the relevant section?

Author: Keep this open for now

Reviewer 8: We used to disallow this config.  Now it is allowed now.  It is a config come with native Istio and we are not doing any customization.  We just start allowing updating it.  From disallowing to allowing should fit in behavior change.

Reviewer 8: On 2nd though, @charleswool , I think it better fit into components update section.   It is more of a component (Istio) update rather than a AKS behavior change.

>   * You can now disable [NodeAutoProvisioning](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/node-autoprovision) if meet these criteria: 1. The cluster must have 0 NAP-managed nodes. 2. Every existing karpenter.sh/NodePool must have its spec.limits.cpu set to 0.

Reviewer 2: - can we add the behavior before and after? I gather these are the new requirements for disable. we need to add what was before so that the behavior change is clear
- formatting nit: on the criteria itself, if we have a list, can we make it a sublist (indented bullet points) under the main line on disabling NAP

Author: Updated to reflect the before state: you can't disable NAP, now you can. Also incorporate the formatting

>   * [Disabling kube-proxy](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/configure-kube-proxy) no longer requires the AFEC flag in bring-your-own (BYO) CNI scenarios.

Author: incorporated

>   * [ExtensionManager](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/kubernetes/conceptual-extensions) is moved from kube-system to internal AKS infrastructure. Clusters with extensions in canary no longer require any of the outbound networking rules documented [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/outbound-rules-control-egress#cluster-extensions). Note that some extensions such as Flux still require a subset of these outbound rules.

Reviewer 2: leaving a comment on this in internal chat.

* Component Updates:

>   * Fleet networking components updated to v0.39 from v0.38 to fix CVE.

Reviewer 5: Any docs or GH link?

Author: Am tagging @sjwaight to provide links

Reviewer 9: @charleswool could you replace all "extension-manager" with "ExtensionManager"

>   * Fleet networking components updated to v0.39 from v0.38 to fix CVE.

Reviewer 2: @sjwaight, @ryanzhang-oss is this component visible on the clusters (afaik no) or is this component open sourced? if no on both questions, we need to remove this line. if yes to second question, then we need to add a link to release notes for v0.39

Reviewer 10: oh, it's open sourced, the release note is https://github.com/Azure/fleet-networking/releases/tag/v0.3.9

>   * [Workload Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/workload-identity-deploy-cluster) updated from v1.4.0 to v1.5.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * [Workload Identity](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/workload-identity-deploy-cluster) updated from v1.4.0 to [v1.5.0](https://github.com/Azure/azure-workload-identity/releases/tag/v1.5.0)
```

  * App-routing-operator has been upgraded to [v0.2.5](https://github.com/Azure/aks-app-routing-operator/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#025---2025-04-22) on all supported AKS versions.

>   * Cost-analysis-agent and -scraper versions in addon charts updated from v0.0.22 to 0.0.23 to fix [CVE-2025-22871](https://pkg.go.dev/vuln/GO-2025-3563).

Reviewer 2: there's some missing text before -scraper I think. @charleswool, @kaysieyu can we follow up on this?

Author: Doubled checked it's cost-analysis-scraper, updated

  * Cilium image updated to v1.13 to fix [CVE-2024-45336](https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2024-45336), [CVE-2024-45341](https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2024-45341), [CVE-2025-22866](https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2025-22866), [CVE-2025-22870](https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2025-22870), [CVE-2024-45337]( https://avd.aquasec.com/nvd/cve-2024-45337).
  * Updated [Istio-based service mesh add-on](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade) revisions asm-1-23, asm-1-24, and asm-1-25 to patch [v1.23.6](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.23.x/announcing-1.23.6), [v1.24.5](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.24.x/announcing-1.24.5) and [1.25.2](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.25.x/announcing-1.25.2). asm-1-24 support has now been extended to include AKS 1.33.
  * Azure Disk CSI driver version updated to [v1.32.4](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.32.4) on AKS 1.32, [v1.31.8](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/azuredisk-csi-driver/releases/tag/v1.31.8) on AKS 1.31.
  * Coredns updated to v1.12.1-1 on AKS 1.33.

>   * Agentbaker updated to v0.20250416.0.

Reviewer 5: Suggest removing all the node image / VHD call outs and pointing to Release tracker nodeimage section as its more real time.

Reviewer 2: let's remove the agent baker line and keep the vhd notes. rationale - yes release tracker points to agentbaker repo for notes. but release tracker also only lists last 3 versions and doesn't list versions beyond those. on the other hand enumerating them here maintains record on which node image version was present during any aks release or week/month

Author: removed

>   * Agentbaker updated to v0.20250416.0.

Reviewer 2: we can remove this line as agentbaker is not an externally facing terminology. the vdh notes should suffice, which you have already added below. so we can remove this line.

Author: removed
